I've never heard a story like this in my
life. A story of drug trafficking,
bribery, kidnapping, and even murder,
which earned you the nickname of
America's dirtiest cop. And I want to
know everything. Okay, but let's just be
clear. If you choose to have a
conversation with me about this, you're
going to hear things that you won't
like.
Jesus. Let me just say this. Being a New
York cop was the greatest job in the
world. But it's not built for somebody
to come in and be the night and shining
armor. You're working minimal wage.
Civilians are against you and you're
directly told not to make drug arrests.
Why? Well, cuz they got a budget to
manage. And the average amount of
overtime for one crack arrest was 18
hours. So that leads to the streets
becoming unwieldy. So what happens is a
guy like me who's entrepreneur spirit
shows up and says, "There's a way to
control this. I can't arrest him." So I
tax them. And that escalated. Greed is
powerful, bro. But what happens then?
You become God. I was making more than
the president of the United States by
protecting one of the largest drug
trafficking organizations in New York.
But I was losing control and I became
the face of New York City's corruption
problem. People wanted me dead. And then
in 1992, you were arrested and you
admitted to hundreds of crimes. But what
about your family at this point? You
know, that was tough. They're really
special people.
Mike, we spoke to your parents. Do you
want to see what they said?
I'm Carol Dow and uh I'm Michael Dow's
[Music]
mother. This has always blown my mind a
little bit. 53% of you that listen to
the show regularly haven't yet
subscribed to the show. So, could I ask
you for a favor before we start? If you
like the show and you like what we do
here and you want to support us, the
free simple way that you can do just
that is by hitting the subscribe button.
And my commitment to you is if you do
that, then I'll do everything in my
power, me and my team, to make sure that
this show is better for you every single
week. We'll listen to your feedback.
We'll find the guests that you want me
to speak to, and we'll continue to do
what we do. Thank you so
much. Mike, when people do interviews
with you, they often describe you as New
York's dirtiest cop. No. And I watched
that over and over again in your
interviews. And I wondered as I watched
people calling you New York's dirtiest
cop how that makes you
feel. Not
good. Yeah. And that's a touchy subject
and and and and but I accept it and I've
turned it uh into something where I'm
able to m maybe chaperon an audience
because of it. But it's not nice to hear
that. More importantly, it's not nice
for your parents to hear something like
that. And thank God they're still alive.
But, you know, it's not the happy day
when your mother says sees your name on
the front page of the newspaper. I'll
tell you that. And for nothing good, you
know. And how many crimes did you commit
while you were a New York cop? So, it
may have been thousands because every
time I did something that was
inappropriate. So, you got to step back
for a second. Every time a police
officer puts on his badge and and swears
that oath and takes the job on, he's
basically taking a risk on everything he
does that can end him up in jail.
Everything. And that's really a very
difficult position to be in. Everything
you do legitimately can end you up being
sanctioned or arrested. So I would
suggest basically anything I did or any
interaction I did could have been
considered with some kind of criminal
intent. And still on the top line, just
painting the picture here, what are the
before we get into the detail, what are
the variety of crimes that you committed
as a New York police officer? So, every
time you take something from somebody,
money, cash, drugs, um, personal
property, let's say, it's basically a
robbery basically because you have a gun
on your hip and you're using a power, a
position of power. So, you would start
with robbery, extortion, burglary when
you went into someone's home and came
out with uh, a product. I mean, I've
taken tapes from, you know, back in the
day, you know, those VCR tapes, they
were there was a lot of good stuff in
some VCR tapes. I mean, we can get a
little humorous here, but the reality
was, you know, you know, some guy's porn
collection might be missing. I mean, it
just these are the these are the things
that you ran into their cash, their gold
coins, you know, there whatever was when
someone's dead, it's really hard for
them to complain about what's missing.
So, and you know, it's ironic, it's
stupid, and it's debauchery at the same
time. So you you cross all the you cross
all the lines of decorum when you do
something like that. Did you steal
someone's porn collection? Maybe.
Really? It could have been. But the guy
they were dead. They were dead. They
were dead. They couldn't use it anymore.
I mean they were smoking crack. Okay. So
I'm in the 94th precinct in Brooklyn now
which is Williamsburg where you say it
was a lovely place and it was it was
becoming lovely when we were they
started opening up some studios. We got
a call for dead on arrival. You know,
someone was murdered. So, we we show up
and the guy's sitting in his couch with
a knife in his side. I mean, you walk
into this home and there's a guy on his
couch like this, sitting there with a
hole in his side with the knife still in
it. He's bled
out. And the place looked like there was
a party that didn't stop. So, while
there, I'm sitting around waiting and
waiting for the boss to show up and the
squad to show up, the detective squad to
show up. And I'm looking around,
rumaging a little bit, see what see like
looking for the evidence of the of the
crime scene. And sure enough, I hit the
button on the VCR and there's a porn.
They've got the porn on [__] TV. So
I'm saying, okay, there he's dead.
There's crack uh evidence of there was
no crack there, by the way. It was all
gone. No one leaves crack behind. The
cigarette smokes were p, you know, the
ashes were piled out of the out of the
ashtrays and there's beer bottles
everywhere. So it's July. It's 100
degrees and this apartment has no air
conditioning in it. So, what does any
self-respecting 20some year old man want
at this point? Not the porn per
se, but the beer, right? So, I'm looking
around, every beer bottle is empty, and
right below the apartment is a bodega
right below it. Like upstairs is the is
the dead guy and downstairs is a bodega.
So, we go downstairs and we tell the
guy, "Listen, we're going to be upstairs
for a couple hours." He hands us a
six-ack of Coors Light. You can't make
the story
up. We walk in, me and my partner Tom,
and in comes the detective. We each have
a beer. We're sitting at [__]
waiting for the boss to show
up. Boss walks in. She looks around. She
goes, "I want every beer bottle in here
printed." She says, "And in the
refrigerator." Now, I just put the
[__] six-pack in the refrigerator
when she walked
in. So, I'm going, "Now, picture this.
They know I'm corrupt, okay? But they
can't prove it. I'm on what you would
call secret probation, even though I'm
not on probation. They're watching me
like a hawk. Now, I got a detective
who's looking at me like, "We just had a
beer. The f our [__] fingerprints are
inside the refrigerator and he's
scared." I'm not. I
mean, I'm going to take a hit, I guess.
Right. So, I go, "Sange?" She goes, she
goes,
"What?" "In that refrigerator, there's a
six-ack of Coors
Light and my fingerprints are on the
bottles in the in in the
refrigerator." She looks at me. She
goes, "Of course it's you." She goes,
"Of all the people in this [__]
police department, it would be your
fingerprints inside the refrigerator on
a cause light bottle at a homicide
scene. And there's only four homicides
in this precinct this year, and you've
been on three of them. You've been at
the scene of three of So I go, "Yeah, it
doesn't look too good, does it?" So, she
goes, "I'm going to go
downstairs. I'm going to go to my car
and I'm going to make a phone call.
Whatever I got to do." I says, she said,
"Get rid of that and don't do it again."
Did you steal the porn collection? Yes.
It was already in the car. It was
already in the car. I already had it.
I mean, that's all he had. A knife in
his belly and a porn collection.
You didn't steal the knife? No, I
couldn't. There's evidence. But you put
his porn collection in your car. Yeah.
Wow. And you do originally trained to
become an accountant and drop out
because of a woman, right? And you
wanted to follow her. So you end up
joining the police academy in 1982, 21
years old, right? And when you joined
the police academy, did you do it
because you wanted to be a police
officer and because you wanted to serve
and defend? No, that's not why I joined.
I joined because I wanted a job. Because
you wanted a job. And so when you stood
there and took that oath, right? Did you
mean it? I you know, no. I mean, I guess
I guess so. So, so the answer to So, if
you say no, it mean that means that you
have no concern or care. So, it was an
immature yes.
So, you take that oath, you don't really
mean it.
And I I'm embarrassed if I say I I want
to be truthful because I don't I don't
like to lie. I I felt pride when I said
it. Is that So, I I felt full of pride
when I said it. And as part of your
training to become a police officer, you
do some integrity training. Yes. some
like ethics training to make sure that
police officers are like straight and
narrow and understand. So, one of the
things that I would suggest on that
statement or that that that whole uh
genre is it it wasn't necessarily we
weren't necessarily trained on integrity
or or ethics. We were trained on this is
what would happen to you
if don't take $5 from a motorist or $50
from a motorist because that will lead
to one you being arrested and being all
over the news and then all the cops are
going to hate you. Like it was never
really explained to you as a student in
the academy the depth of the lack of
integrity and what you're actually
affecting. Okay. like the fundamental
issue if we don't trust law enforcement
and the downstream consequences. Thanks
for saying it that way. Yes. Because it
it it destroys the very fabric of what
people trust in law enforcement because
when you need help, you got to call
somebody and the person that shows up
has to be trustworthy. Now, I would
argue because I robbed money from drug
dealers and even their drugs, you can
still trust me, right? That's what I
would argue because if you're not doing
those things essentially Mhm. you're
safe with me and I will give you the
best police service that you ever asked
for and probably go above and beyond to
help you. There was some kind of comment
made at the end of your training by an
internal affairs academy instructor
which basically said to be successful as
a cop, don't follow these rules, the
ethics rules that you were just given.
So yes, so that wasn't the internal
affairs officer that said that. That
would be your academy instructor. Okay.
Yeah. ironic. He said to me, "Us in the
academy class, if you live by the rules
that these
guys espouse in internal affairs, you'll
never make uh a successful cop. Just
cover your ass." That would be his that
was his words. Just cover your ass. What
What do they mean by that? Always have a
reason. Always have an excuse.
Basically, you Yeah, you hit it on the
head. Like, so bas and have if you have
a partner, be on the same page. So,
let's say something was handled
inappropriately. Maybe there was some
excessive force used, which I'm not fond
of and nor am I in favor of, but there
may be times where you might have given
a guy an extra elbow. It happens. You
know, you're mad, you spit in my face, I
put the cuffs on you, I give you a shot.
It h doesn't do you hit the door on the
way in sometimes. So, as long as your
partner and you have the story straight,
you can pretty much without these
cameras
today get away with most things that are
not unreasonable. And the police all
kind of agree that they won't snitch on
each other. That's general the general
rule. And it's called I read this term
the blue wall of silence. Yes. Right.
So, let's just be clear. The first
person that's going to snitch on you is
going to be a cop. Okay.
However, more chances than not, they try
not to. And that's just the facts.
Because what cop wants to go out on
patrol knowing that if something goes
down and it goes a little sideways from
where it's supposed to go, let's say you
and I were working together and you just
told on me last week and now someone's
pummeling you to death in the street. I
have a chance to help you or I can call
for backup and wait, you know. So, you
don't want that relationship with me,
right? I mean, we're trying to get home
tonight. Yeah. So, it really puts people
in a very precarious position because
you need those other cops for your own
personal survival. So, Correct. So, you
don't want to be snitching on other
cops.
Yeah. It's, you know, I mean, it's
really not built that position in this
society is not built for somebody to
come in and be the night and shining
armor and say, "Listen, Officer Dav,
that was not appropriate. I'm gonna have
to report you right now. Before he goes
to report me, I'm gonna either bludgeon
him to death because now he's taking my
livelihood away. He's taking the food
off the table of my family. You don't
look at it as like you're getting a guy
in trouble. You look at you're taking a
career, a livelihood, incarceration. I
mean, these are the things that can
happen. Like I said, the minute you put
that badge on, and I didn't get to this,
is the minute that the job and the is
looking to take something from
you. Like, think about that. Mechanic
goes to work and they say, "Can you get
six cars done today?" I'll try. You got
six and there's a bonus for you at the
end of the day. A cop goes to work and
they're looking to screw him the whole
time. Who's looking to screw him? The
department and the civilians. I didn't
like the way he handled me. They make a
complaint. Your boss goes, "I got the
people complaining. I'm going to have to
give you a [__] assignment or I'm going
to have to change your assignment." I
mean, the whole time someone's against
you. They're trying to find some kind of
[__] in your arm or something you did
wrong. Yeah. And it's really to cover
their ass. Back to the beginning. It's a
very, very difficult position. A fireman
goes to work, you know what they do?
They save lives. They put out fires.
They eat a good meal. They have a great
gym. No one's in there going They have
rules in decorum, but no one's going,
"We're looking to take you for this.
We're looking to stripe you for that."
The civilians aren't walking into a
firehouse and going, "I didn't like the
way that truck backed down and the siren
blasted and hurt my ears." They're
going, "Yay! They're going to save
someone's life. A cop shows up on the
scene. He's going to give me a ticket.
He's going to arrest my husband. My
husband beat me and he doesn't believe
me." I mean, it's just it's such a it's
such a grading position to be in. When
we when we're thinking about the
factors, the environmental factors that
led you to make the decisions that you
made, one of the big factors that I was
looking into at the time was there was
obviously this crack epidemic, but then
it also seemed like the police at the
time didn't actually want you to arrest
people. Yes, that's correct. I saw some
crazy stat which I'm sure you'll be able
to recount for me, but in the in the
sort of decade that you were a police
officer, you didn't do that many
arrests. No. How many? 43. You did what?
43 arrests. You did 43 arrests in how
many years? Well, I mean, total total 10
years, but yeah. So, not all of that was
patrolled, but yeah. So, it doesn't
matter. I mean, I can make 43 arrests in
a month. Okay. If I really wanted to. If
you weren't corrupt at that time, how
many arrests do you think you probably
should have made in those 10 years based
on the crimes that you observed?
500. Okay. So, about 90% of the things
you should have arrested someone for,
you didn't.
Okay. And why weren't you making more
arrests?
You couldn't keep the police on patrol
if they were making arrests. They were
clogging up the system. The system would
get so jammed up. The average amount of
overtime for one crack arrest was 18
hours. You would be paid for that. Paid
time and a half. Okay. So then the
department has to pay you more money if
you do an arrest and then process the
arrest and they all get processed
through the correction system and they
all get processed through the court
system. I mean, you're talking 150,000
arrests a year in in Brooklyn alone.
That's a lot of numbers if you just keep
cranking at it. And everybody's getting
18 hours overtime per arrest. And who's
paying for all these arrests at the end
of the day? Well, the city the city's
pay. So, the city don't want you to be
arresting people because they got a
budget to m manage. Were you ever
directly told to stop arresting people?
Yeah. How's this? You really didn't make
a dent on it and now there's two men off
patrol
and then your next assignment was the
desk. You're making arrests causing a
problem. Yeah. The city's paying for it.
There's less police available and the
robberies, the the murders and the rapes
in those communities were extremely
high. They rather have them sell crack
than people getting robbed and raped and
murdered. Does that make sense? Of
course it does. Yeah. So, it's all
incentives. I think if you look at any
system, you'll understand why people
behave they do if you understand the
incentive structure. And in your case,
if you made more arrests of criminals,
then the city would have both a bill
because they had to pay cops overtime to
take care of the admin work, but also
they're going to have more cops off the
street, which could also lead to more
crime. More crime. Yes. So, you were
incentivized not to arrest people.
Correct. Okay. So, that So, what does
that be? What does that lead to? That
leads to the streets becoming unwieldy.
You're like, there's no control. So,
what happens is a guy like me who's
entrepreneurial spirit shows up and says
there's a way to control this. I tax
these people or arrest them. One of the
two. And I can't arrest them. So, I tax
them. And let's talk about that first
experience of you taxing the first
person, which I think was
in 1983.
Your starting salary when you joined the
police was $18,000 a year roughly. Yes.
And you pulled someone over in 1983.
Yes. And that's the first time That's
the first time there was a tax levy.
That was the first time you you
committed a crime, I guess, as a police
officer. No, but the first time that I
committed an actual money crime, I would
say. Yeah. How old were you at that
point? In ' 83? 23. 24. Yeah. And that
was basically uh we called it a Puerto
Rican mystery back then. I know that I'm
famous for saying that and people are uh
listen that's that's what they called
it. All right. Because the guy was from
Puerto Rico and he had no paperwork, no
license or anything like that. And he
just bought the car. You pulled him
over. Pulled them over. No plates. No
plates. Right. You just came here from
Puerto Rico. You got a stack of hundreds
in your bag and I'm looking at him
saying, "You know, you got like $2,000
worth of tickets and I'm supposed to
take your car from you." I said, "But
you know, I like lobster. Leave me
enough money for a lobster lunch. this
whole thing can go
away. So, the kid was quick on his feet.
He left a couple hundred bucks under my
briefcase on the back seat. He got out
and I said, "I don't want to ever see
you again, you know, unless you got
unless you got some more lobster lunch
money later." Of course, I didn't say
that. And of course, I left that scene
with the money and I was very
uncomfortable because it was the first
time I actually solicited something like
that. But it was sort of a it's almost
like I won something. as a cop. One of
the things we saw in movies back then is
cops getting like sexual favors because
they're cops. Yeah. Did that happen? I
would say that was available and I've
took it advant some advantage of it. But
yeah, there was some.
Yeah. Yeah, there was some. I mean I
mean that that's like you know you're
driving by in a police car and a girl
says hello and you go you and you go
[__] her. I mean you know that is that
is that a is that like a benefit of the
job or is that you know your
promiscuity?
Did you ever do that while working?
Yes. That's my biggest sin in the world.
While working in the car?
Yes.
Wow. Not just in movies. That's the
license of siren only went off once.
Really?
That was from a [__] It wasn't from
Yeah. The girl's ass hit the [__]
buzzer. I'm like the [__] the big back.
3:00 in the morning. You hit the buzzer.
I'm in the back of a courtyard of a
ninestory building. Your boss, your
sergeant around that time, did he know
that you were doing things like this?
Not then. No. No. But shortly
thereafter, there would be a situation
where my sergeant uh it was a murder
scene. Dead kid, 20-year-old shot in the
head and it was a marijuana
spot. There's money, there's drugs, you
know. I mean, listen, it's overwhelming
when you'll come across these things
that there's a dead body there and
you're entrusted to handle all this
stuff and you're broke.
And so I took a little thin stack of
hundreds and put it in my pocket. Turned
out it was like 600 bucks. And as the
crime scene was being processed in walks
my sergeant, Sergeant James Otto, he
says, "Is this it?" Like two, three
pounds of marijuana, which is like this
much marijuana. It's not a [__] big
pile of [__] And uh I don't know, it
was like I don't know $1,500 in cash
stacked all over here. Is this it? I go,
"Yeah." I go, "But but I felt like he
was asking me too much." So, well, I did
have this and I take out a thin stack of
hundreds. And he goes, "Oh, anything
else?" I go, "No, that's it." I said,
"You know, I didn't want to take it full
of
blood." Later on that night, I run into
him at a at a a choir practice they
would call it. He went out bullshitting,
having a couple beers. I said, "Set let
me ask you a question. What if and I say
and I I come across money and he what if
I kept that 600?" He goes, "I was
annoyed that you gave it to me." Like
just picture the moment. You're 20some
years old. You're broke. You know,
you're coming to work. You know, you're
surviving. You're in survival mode.
You're out having a couple of beers with
your buddies and the your boss who's got
20 years on the job at this point. So,
he's actually could retire if he wanted
to. and he says to you, "If I don't see
it, it's yours." He says, "But let me
know so you can throw me something later
on." It was like the whole vision of
this thing changed at that
moment. He's basically saying, "If you
get there, it's
yours. Take what you can before I get
there because I don't want to witness it
because I don't want to have to witness
it." Was he taking money? Well, he
wouldn't. He'd say no, but clearly he
was indicating that it's good. just
don't let me see it. When you reflect on
that scene that you arrived at, you said
there was a 20-year-old man that was
dead. Yeah. Did Did seeing those scenes
ever bother you? Initially, my first my
first DOA was my first day. Guy jumped
off a building and landed on his
head. Uh that bothered me because the
family showed up. It was horrific. And I
got to hold the family back and don't
touch him because he could be a murder.
We don't know. We don't know why he's
dead. It's a crime scene
essentially. I began to see people shot,
stabbed. You have a total disconnect
like really quickly. The first shooting
I was at was doing a midnight shift and
and the guys were doing a burglary of a
car. They were stealing tires and tire
irons. And I said, "Hey, we should stop
these guys." And my buddy S's like,
"Nah." My partner, nah, let him go. It's
late. Someone flags us down. Hey, this
guy's trying to steal steal tires off a
car. So now I said, "Look, we got
civilians complaining about the same
people that we should have just
tossed." Turn around, go back about two
or three blocks. Guy's dead in the
street and I see a tire iron. So I said
to the people, "Was there were they
carrying a jack or a tire iron?" And
they go, "Yeah." And they point over to
the street where the the tire iron was
for taking the wheels off off a car.
this guy could have shot us, you know,
like so like like he's dead. It could
have been us or if we did toss this guy,
he could not be dead. So when you come
that close to death
itself, your your survival instincts
give you an ability to disconnect fairly
quickly from those types of scenes. Did
you ever show up to a scene where you
saw someone dead or dying and feel sad?
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. A couple times. But more
important, one one one that strikes me a
lot. I was I was talking to the guy who
was going out. I know he's going to die.
You know, it was just uh he was stabbed
in the stomach and uh he's looking at me
and he goes, "I'm getting cold." I go,
"Yeah, it's going to be
okay." He says, "I'm getting cold
officer." I sat out. Are you going to be
okay? We're going to get you to the
hospital. You know, the ambulance showed
up like five minutes later and he was
barely conscious when he got in the
ambulance and he wasn't going to make it
and he he died. And it was sad because I
couldn't do anything for him. I'm like,
you saw a lot of stuff. Why did that
affect you?
I felt bad because I was talking to him
knowing he's going to die.
Like, and one other time I felt really
bad. Uh some guy who was I guess he was
he was getting laid. young guy, big,
heavy set, strong, powerful black guy.
He's his wife is like I looked at her,
she goes, I'm like, I knew I could tell
it was a sexual thing. They had sex and
the [__] guy was like 35 years old
and he he was either dead or dying. He
had a heart
attack and uh I wanted to give him
CPR, but it would have been my first
actual CPR case, you know, and the two
cops I was working with go, "No, don't
worry about it. Go get the ambulance.
Don't worry about it." Yeah. Yeah. He's
going to be okay. Don't worry about it.
Go get the
ambulance. I'm like, "Shouldn't we do
CPR?" "No, no, no. You go
outside." I was the kid. I was the
rookie and these two oldtimes were like,
"Don't worry about it. It's going to be
all right. Go outside and and direct the
ambulance in." Like two minutes later,
the ambulance showed up. They started
CPR on the guy and he died. To not
render aid when you think you can make a
difference, that hurts. Why did they
tell you not to render aid, Tim? I I
don't know. I don't know why. They
didn't tell me why, you know, and it was
very disheartening because I think I
could have helped save the guy, but what
am I going to do? Wrestle with these
guys? And, you know, they got go get the
they're in charge. Senior cop on the
scene is in charge. At some point you
started actually dealing drugs. Yeah.
How did you start getting into drugs?
When did when was that Eureka moment
that you realized that you could sell
drugs? My partner at the time took some
home out of the blue and uh he came back
and handed me a couple hundred dollars
one day. I said, "What's that for?" He
goes, "That [__] we've been throwing out
is cocaine. We ain't throwing it out no
more. I got somebody that wants it." So
he's bringing me cash. I was like,
"Okay, well, this ain't that bad." I
mean, for me, it was like, I didn't see
it. I didn't do it, so I was okay with
it. And then it becomes like anything
else, it softens the blow for the next
step. And eventually, I would lead to me
just whatever dope I found, I would take
and and if I couldn't find it, I' I'd
see one of the drug dealers and say,
"Give me something or or or give me
something for discount." I mean, that
that's it becomes you become a a market
maker at that point. Did you stop buying
it to sell it from these drug dealers?
At some points I started buying it.
Yeah. How bad did it get with the drug
dealing when you were a cop? Because it
almost sounds like you've at this point
given up being a cop enforcing the law.
So here's it's a dichotomy, right?
Because I put the uniform on. I go to
work and if you are not in the drug
business, you're going to get a good
police
officer in my from my perspective. You
may never say that. You may never agree
with it. But if you were had a car
accident and you needed a police officer
to take the report, bring you to a
hospital. I would do all the
arrangements, do whatever best I could.
If you had gotten robbed, I would do the
report. I'd take you to a hospital if
you were injured, you know, whatever it
need. I I mean, I responded like a
proper police officer. But if you were
in the drug business, you were
mine. You were
mine. Simple. I mean, how else can I say
it? What do you mean by you were mine?
You were mine. I owned you. In what
regard? In every regard. Whatever I
wanted. You were mine. You could take
their drugs. Whatever I wanted. Your car
if I wanted it. Did you ever take
someone's car? I didn't have to. A guy
gave me one.
What else? Whatever. Coats, jackets,
gold, whatever. Chains. What was your
biggest heist as a police officer? I
would They weren't that large. I'd say
40 to 50,000 one at one time. which back
then was good money. You know, you're
talking about two years salary, you
know. Yeah. If you're on a like 20
$30,000, whatever is your salary,
getting 40,000 is Yeah. I doubled my
salary. Triple my salary. Yeah. That
year. Things like that come along, you
know? So, so there was opportunities.
So, you would call that a score, right?
Opposed to an ongoing thing. Mh. Because
like boom, it's there. It's it's a one
hit and wonder and it's over. Every job
in East New York, nine out of 10 was
involved with drugs. You're exposed to
it. It's your choice on how you deal
with it. You're the boss. You are the
boss. You show up, you're the boss. Were
your colleagues around you doing the
same? The accurate answer is some
were this. The best description is you
would never know. You would never know.
I might because I know what's going on.
But if you were a cop that was not
involved, you would never know. So the
good cops wouldn't know that it was
happening. You wouldn't know because I'm
not going to tell you. Now, if you
happen to say something to me that you,
hey, wait a minute, something went down
there, I'd say, and what do you want to
do about
it? You want in? I'll tell you a funny
story. Ready? We go to the scene. I
don't want to describe it because it's
lengthy. Long story short, the cops show
up. We're the cops. But the cops show up
behind us and they go, "Oh, that's Dow
and his partner. Leave them alone." And
they turn around and they walk away. So
the officers knew just just I don't want
to see what they're doing because
they're not I'm culpable or responsible
for what they're doing. And that's how
it became. And what were you doing at
that scene?
Cocaine and heroin. My partner wanted
the guns. I said, "What are you going to
do with the guns? This money. This This
is money. That's a gun." And and and
people were in debt. So the guns may be
connected to the crime. So just when you
show up at a scene like that, how do you
and you arrive there and there's guns,
there's money, there's drugs. How do you
get the money and the drugs without
other officers seeing you? That's funny.
Like how'd you get it out? Do you put it
in the back of the police car? So one
time I put it in a laundry bag, which
was loaded up with heroin and cocaine
and I don't know whatever else was in
there. And I happened to be lucky. There
was a a row of garbage pales along this
person's entrance way. As the sergeant
was walking up the stairway to
investigate the scene with us to to
secure it and make sure everyone's doing
what they're supposed to do. I take this
bag and I go like this and I put it in
the garbage pail. He comes up to me. I
go, "SGE, there's a guy dead in the
doorway. They shot him through the
through the eyehole." I said, "There's
another guy shot upstairs and there's a
bunch of guns and stuff up there." I go,
"But there's so many cops here. I'm
going to go 98." which means I'm going
to go back on patrol. He goes, "Good."
Like, "Good
idea." I'm like, "Good. We agree." So
that gets me away from the scene. So now
he goes up the stairs. I go back into
the garbage pail, pick up the the green
laundry bag, and put it in my car, and I
leave. So now I got to go to a drug
dealer, get rid of it, and then you get
loads of cash eventually. Yes. And what
do you do with the cash? In that
specific case, I drove right to my my
drug dealing friend's place who had an
auto body auto sound city. They put the
sound into into cars. I went right to
his shop. I dropped off some dope with
him and he called his buddy that sold
the heroin in the area and so on and so
forth and that recycles back into money.
Were you ever scared?
No. No. Should you have been? I I should
have been more cautious. Did you ever
think you were going to get caught?
You know, it was in the back of my mind
for probably five years. Just never
left. And thus, thus you constantly are
um your anxiety levels up. You know,
your body starts to go numb. Uh and you
wonder what's wrong with me? What's
wrong with you? You're living like three
different lives. You know, you have a
wife, you have a girlfriend, you have
drugs, you you're a cop, you're selling
drugs, you're shaking people
down. Everything's just fine. No, it's
not it's never good. You have a wife and
a girlfriend? Yeah, most most of the
time. And you have kids at that time?
One.
And did anybody know what you were doing
at home? I would leave that up to her.
But the mink coats and the new cars and
the trips to around the world, you don't
do them on a cop salary. But you never
said it. She knew enough.
And did she ever give you advice about
what you were doing? Stop. That's what
she said. Stop. I don't need this. I'd
rather have you. Imagine that.
That's a nice feeling in a way, right?
I'd rather you sleep under a bridge.
That's what she said. Yeah. Your
ex-wife. Yeah. And why didn't you stop?
Can't you can't you can't you can't stop
that. It's not that easy to stop that. I
I read the story that someone a
lieutenant had put a complaint against
you for a trivial matter and you
retaliated by reporting them uh to
internal affairs for being in a drug
house and then this sort of led to a
situation where you received death
threats over the phone from that
lieutenant. Yeah. I'm working in Coney
Island. I was sent to Coney Island to
get away from East New York because they
knew I was hot. I mean, the story is so
big and deep, it's just crazy. His
bottom line with him was I end up in a
dispute with him somehow. He's a cop.
Cop. Yeah. He had a Mercedes-Benz 3 380
or something. Mercedes-Benz, whatever it
was. His license plate on the back of
his car said B
Scott. Less than a month later, about
three weeks later, I'm out in Long
Island and there's the car. There's only
one B Scott, right? In New York plate.
And I pulled over and I said to my wife
at the time, I said, "Get a good look at
this guy." And he went up into a crack
house. It was only one crack house in
the in the whole neighborhood. And that
was it. He went up into it and then he
came out. I said, "Well, I left. I went
home and I spoke to my neighbor who was
my wife's uncle who was a detective in
the 102 squad with 28 years on the job
at the time." I said, "Listen, I want to
talk to you." He goes, "What's up?" I
told him the story, the scenario. And he
goes, "Listen, Mike. anything but drugs,
you got to turn them in. It was hard for
me to do this because now I'm turning on
a guy that I know was involved in drugs
and I know what I had done previously.
So I call internal. They were at my
house in 45 minutes. Like hello. I mean
my house. I live 45 minutes from them.
They're at my house in 45 minutes. They
do an interview with me. Long story
short, they put a line up in front of
me. I picked the guy out. So later on,
within a week or so, I'm getting phone
calls to my house at 2:30 in the
morning. But it's every day. It's going
on every day for about a month's length
of time. So finally, I go, "What do you
want, bro? Enough is enough. I'm [__]
your wife. Every time you go to work,
I'm [__] her." Oh. Oh, really? Yeah.
She gets off the train in Long Island
Railroad and I pick her up. I bring her
home and I [__] her. Oh, okay. Thank you
very much. I said, "Well, why don't you
come by?" And we'll straighten it out
right here, you and me. He goes, "Why
did I put a bullet in your [__] head
while you're standing there in front of
the window?"
So, he could see you? I don't know. Did
you plot to kill him? No. Why would I
plot to kill this guy? Well, because it
sounds like he wants to kill you. Well,
that's different now. But I But I did
but I didn't cuz I didn't know who it
was. It took me years to figure out who
it was. But in the interim, I ran into
him again. I essentially arrested him
without arresting him. I gave him
summones, which is an arrest in a way.
And he was so pissed off. He made a
complaint against me. And you know, but
he was suspended.
Oh, so he was a civilian when you arrest
when you He was suspended. He was
officer on suspension. Okay. And he was
suspended for being the gun in a drug
case in Harlem. He was the collector in
Harlem for a drug organization. It turns
out what's a collector? He was the
strong man. So if you owed money to a
drug organization, he went out and
collected it. Oh, okay. So he was he was
an off he was a police officer who had a
job collecting money for a drug
organization in Harlem. You met a guy
called Baron Perez. Yes. Who's Baron
Perez? Baron Perez is the guy who owns
Auto Sound City at the time. He was what
you call a middleman in any deal in
Brooklyn. So he ran a car shop which was
a front for a cocaine. He was not a
front. He had been a legitimate
business. But in his business would be
all the dealers in Brooklyn would come
in. And did you is that where you met
Laac Compenia? Yes. What is LaMenia? La
company was a Dominican drug
organization that
ran small nickel and dime spots
throughout the city. Lots of them. Like
dozens of them. And they were basically
based out of bodeas. And you were a cop
at the time when you met them? Yes. And
they're one of the most powerful drug
organizations in New York City at the
time. At the time. Yes. But they were
street level mostly. They had their own
they had their own organizational
structure, but they they dealt with all
the street level bodeas. And at the time
you're getting paid $600 a week as a
cop. No, every two weeks. Every two
weeks as a cop. So you're making $300 a
week as a cop, right? And this drug gang
offer you how much money to protect?
didn't offer me anything. I told them if
they want the protection, it was 8,000 a
week. And what did they say when you
said that? We'll pay it. So, they paid
you $8,000 a week, the drug gang, for
the first week, and then they were
shorted me $700. What does shorted mean?
Short. They they were short 700. Okay.
So, they paid me $7,300 instead of
$8,000.
So, I told them, I need the rest of the
money. The deal is a deal. And they
said, you know, we're not paying you.
We're done. So then I threatened them
and I shut their business
down. I parked police cars in front of
their business for a week and they put a
hit on me. What does it mean when
someone puts a hit on you as a police
officer? What does that mean? They
suggest to anybody that is willing to
shoot and kill this cop. Uh they'll pay
them. And how do you find out they that
this drug gang has put a hit on you?
Well, because Baron Perez knows
everybody in the city in the drug
business because he does their cars. He
said there's a hit on you. He said, "By
the company." I said,
"Okay." I went out that same day. I saw
his car. I never met the guy in my life,
but I knew his car. The company, the
boss. I pulled him over. He didn't know
who I was. I told him my license
registration. I just threw the papers
back in his lap. I said, "You going to
put a hit on me?" He turned as wide as
that pen because now I'm standing over
him and he's sitting down a little tiny
Renault looking up at me. I said, "If
you want to put a hit on me, why don't
we we'll clear it up right here. I'll
let you get out of the car. We'll do 10
pace walk off. You turn around, I'll
turn around and we'll shoot it out." Did
you mean that? I meant it. Every word of
it. You don't say something you don't
mean when you talk about guns and
weapons. What if he said yes? It was on.
I wasn't going to not I was going to not
let him. Were you not scared? I I I was
crazy. I don't know. It I didn't think
of fear. I always thought I was I was
going to win. What did he say? No, no,
no, no. Oh, I said well you take the hit
off. My pager went off 20 minutes later
and he said the hit's off. I don't want
to do any more business with you. There
was a $700. Please leave us alone. So
you got your $700 in the end. Yeah. And
that was the end of your relationship
with with them with Laminia. Correct. Um
at some point after that you met a guy
called Adam Diaz. Correct. Who is a much
bigger Dominican drug dealer. Correct.
Adam was you know two three levels above
them. You know he was like the guy that
gets the 1500 kilos and distributes it
out. And he's making a million dollars a
week and he's selling what$50 million a
year in cocaine. Correct. Yeah. How did
you come to meet him and what was the
arrangement? So Baron the same way I met
the company through that car shop. Yes.
Correct. Then we had a nice sit down.
Him and I. We had a discussion. I said
if you want to talk to me, you bring
$24,000 in cash. I don't know why I
didn't say 25.
So he agrees he wants to talk to you.
Yeah. And what does he say? He agrees to
the meeting. We sit down and I I explain
to him what I can do. Uh, what can you
do? Nothing really, but I make it up.
What did you say? I said, "I can surveil
your your buildings and and your
locations and uh if I know of any
impending raids, I could give you a
heads up." I said, "But one thing I did
say to him, and I'll say it to the
camera, if anybody gets hurt, I'm giving
myself and you up." I said, "Because
that's not what this is about." We
agreed to with the terms. I'll do what I
can for you. I said, "I can't promise
you anything, but I will do what I will
do for you is the best that I can." So,
I mean, Diaz started paying me 8,000 a
week. Listen, I'm now making 8,000 a
week splitting it with my partner who
didn't deserve any of it, but whatever.
And
uh, you know, it was more than the
president of the United States at the
time. I mean, the the like that's a
pretty powerful feeling for a civil
servant cop. So, you couldn't really do
anything for him? Very little. You could
do very little for him, but you promised
him a lot. Yes. And he and I and I
actually performed for him. So, he he
originally paid you $24,000 for the
conversation. just for the conversation.
Correct. And then he paid you $8,000 a
week. Yes. Wow. And there was a
particular time where you did actually
save him some money more than once. Yes.
I probably was involved with him at this
point for about three or four weeks. I
was able to pick off a pending raid that
I didn't know they were going into his
store, but I knew there was a raid going
to happen. So I walked into the store,
picked up two Heinekens, walked up to
the counter, opened up the Heinekens,
and told the guy behind I didn't know
the guy behind the counter. I go, "Shut
it down." I shut it down. He looks at
me. I go, "Shut it down." He don't know
me. I don't know him, but he knows. I
walked outside and I say within an hour
and a half, they were hit with a team of
30, 40 narcotics
detectives, and I don't think they found
a gram assault in the place. And there
was another occasion where you saved
Adam Diaz. Well, that's when they got
the the the robbery with uh with Ko and
uh Franklin So Franklin and Ko were the
local bandits. They robbed all the drug
dealers because they were just straight
up killers. They didn't care. And they
went to his spot and they're not going
to kill you if they don't have to if you
give up the [__] So the kid walked him
upstairs, uh Elvis was his name, walked
him upstairs to the apartment with all
the drugs and all the money in it. And
they gave as much as they could up and
someone called
911 and I hit mark one right down there
and I pulled that was the first car on
the scene. I jumped out and Elvis goes,
"Is Elvis is telling me? Yeah, they just
robbed us." So I I shut it down. We're
on the scene. No further. I think it's a
90 x-ray, which means it's unfounded. So
that would stop the police approaching
the location. Basically, I have the
scene closed down. There's a guy
upstairs. The cops are upstairs taking
[__] out like cash and drugs. The
thieves couldn't get it all. There was
just too much. I What are you guys
doing? This is crazy how this happens.
They go, we found I go, "Listen, do you
have a do you have a search warrant to
go in that house?" the young cop and I'm
seeing your guy at the scene. They go,
"No." I go, "So what are you doing? You
can't just go in there and take the [__]
out." Technically, you can't, but you
can because it's an exigent
circumstance. You're allowed. So, they
got bags of cocaine and money. So, I got
the cops to put the cocaine and the
money back in the [__] house. Don't
ask me how, but they did it. A quick
word about our sponsor, LinkedIn. Money
and time are two of the most valuable
resources in business, as you'll know,
and when used in the right way, they
create monumental shifts. But when
mismanaged, they hold you back. And this
is especially true when it comes to B2B
marketing. If your team is spending time
and money trying to reach your target
audience without any clear plan on how
to actually guarantee this, well, I can
guarantee you're probably stumbling
around in the dark. With LinkedIn ads,
you can kill the guesswork and
specifically target buyers by job title,
industry, seniority, skill, even company
revenue. With a network of over a
billion professionals, you'll find the
decision makers, industry leaders, and
executives who actually have the power
to buy. So, if you want to get your
business in front of your target
audience, visit
linkedin.com/diary. And if you do that,
you'll get a $100 credit just for being
part of the Diary of SEO community.
Claim yours right now at
linkedin.com/diary. Terms and conditions
apply. One of your friends when you were
a cop was called officer Venibal and he
was shot in the head by associates at La
Compania. Um, and you were the first cop
to arrive on the scene of Officer
Venable who later died in the hospital.
Correct. And you said that you had a lot
of guilt over it. Yes. Well, because
it's just the whole thing. I was
involved in drugs in East New York and I
was involved in protecting drug
organizations and now a cop that that I
didn't know was killed. And uh that
doesn't matter. They didn't know him
because he's a cop. You know, that's you
know, it's not acceptable. Uh it just
the fact that a cop was killed is not
acceptable. And now the guilt that I
lived with was that I was protecting
people that may have either dealt with
those people or been associated with
those people. He killed a cop, but they
killed a cop. And that's, you know, it
everything's What does Tyson say?
Everything's it's all good until someone
punches you in the [__] nose. Well,
that's like getting punched in the nose.
Like like what am I really
doing? It was hard to swallow. I mean,
and I don't I don't think I don't think
it there's no excuse. What's What's the
answer to that? It's not behavior that
or
it's first of all, in East New York, the
cops are the greatest in the [__]
world. Okay? They dealt with the worst
scenarios that mankind can present.
And at that point, no cop had ever been
killed in East New York. Someone had
been shot, someone had been injured, but
no onduty police officer had been killed
ever in East New York to that day. It's
almost like I was connected to it. And
uh so it was tough. It was tough on me
as a human being, never mind as a cop
that was doing wrong. I mean, we allowed
them to stay in
business even though there was little
you could do. The fact that you knew
what they were doing and the fact that
you parttook in some of the spoils of
it, you feel that you're directly
connected and responsible. When you say
you feel
bad,
what how did that manifest like
literally and specifically? Well, I
would say that that's when I really took
that turn into drugs and alcohol more
deeply. And that's when I ended up
probably three three to six months later
I ended up in a rehab. About six months
later I ended up in rehab. Were you
depressed?
What a cop does, what I did was I would
go in my bathroom, close the door, and
read the paper and
cry. Now, I don't deserve any sympathy
for that. It's just it was my way of
letting go of all the guilt I was living
with throughout uh my career as a cop.
You you go in your bathroom, read the
newspaper, and cry. Yeah. Yeah, just
because it was like a it was a way to
release all the builtup I don't know
what the proper word is for this at this
point. Stress, anxiety, guilt.
Um because I was I knew my internal
strife about what I was doing was wrong.
I was not able to publicly grieve. Who
am I? I'm really feeling bad right now.
What do I do? Um you know, I I robbed
drug dealers and I sold some cocaine and
now there's a cop dead as a result of
cocaine.
Who do I tell that to?
It's my own prison.
At this time, you were on drugs as well.
You were taking alcohol and drugs at
this point. Yeah. Also, you were losing
your marriage,
correct? I So, I want to be accurate on
the reason I went. Even in spite of
losing my marriage and my kids and my
house, it wasn't the driving force. The
driving force was I was going to lose my
job. That was the driving
force. At this point, I didn't want to
lose the job. I'd rather leave the job
on my own terms than lose the job. Who
did you become? I became the direct
result of poor decisions and the
environment that I was in, which I could
see looking back at the time. I became
whatever was in the environment. I
became part of the environment. I I I
was no different than the people that
were selling crack cocaine or robbing
people robbing drug dealers because they
all did each other that way. So, a lot
of people say, "Well, that's the
environment they grew up in." You know
what? I can see that. So, I can relate
to that. You know, it doesn't excuse the
behavior. We all know that. There's no
excuse for the behavior. But I became
the environment I was living in. If I'd
asked your wife at the time, what's Mike
like as a as a human? What would she
have said to me at that point when she
probably would have said he's a lost
soul and an
[__] I wasn't a nice You become you
become God. Like you get the God
complex. Like you feel
indestructible, but you but you see
yourself declining. Like it's the
weirdest thing in the world. You know
you're going down a rabbit
hole, but the whole time you have this
false armor on. What's the rabbit hole
you were going down?
Drugs, alcohol, women, violence. You
know, vi violence is coming. You know, I
mean, you're become you you're turning
into a violent potential killing
machine. I was going to become the exact
thing that you would have said you don't
belong in the street ever in your life
again.
And you went to rehab. And when you're
coming out of rehab, your intent is to
straighten up your life. When I came
home, you know, it was it was it was an
eye openener
because I thought, great, I'm going to
get a fresh
start. It turned out that when you
become a straight lace guy, when you've
been known to be
corrupt, the process of getting to
become a police officer in full respect
is very, very difficult. maybe never h
it may never happen. So in my case,
because I tried to do the right thing
and I'm not trying to I'm not trying to
to shift responsibility because it's
always your own responsibility because I
was trying to do the right thing. Cops
got nervous because this isn't the guy
we heard about. So that means he's here
to set us up. So when you came back from
rehab, they thought you were working as
an informant. Correct. Yes. Very well
played. Yes. That's what they thought
that I was now working for the man. And
I was here there to get them. And what
did that mean in terms of how they
treated you? So they would be they would
shun me, not want to work with me, not
want to partner with me, not want to
back me up, not invite me to any social
gatherings. So I was basically an
outcast now. I went from being the guy
that ran [__] to an outcast. And what
did that mean for you as a cop? Well, it
meant that you isolated. Yeah. And that
you had no camaraderie. you didn't have
the the reason that you enjoyed being a
cops because you had brotherhood,
camaraderie, safety, protection, like
any organization that you belong to, you
know, and I basically didn't have that
any anymore. And um that affected me in
my decision-m going forward from there.
So, I just couldn't stay stopped. It's
like being an alcoholic. You can stop,
but you got to stay stopped. You were
How long were you in rehab for? Two
years. You were in rehab for two years.
Yeah. not locked away in rehab, but on
what they call modified assignment for
two years. Okay. And you you tried to
resign slashret retire from the police
on disability at one point. Well, I was
hoping that they would offer it, right?
Yeah. Messages were being dropped. This
guy's no good and he's they're going to
arrest him soon if if if he continues
on. You know, the words to me were,
"You're going out one way or the other,
and it's not through disability. You're
either getting arrested or fired."
Someone looking at the story would
probably go, "Why didn't you, if you
knew that they were on to you? If you
knew that they were investigating you,
following you for months and months and
months, why didn't you just stop?" You
know, when the kid goes into the barn
and there's a pile of hay and [__] and
manure and someone tells him there's a
diamond ring in the middle of that pile
of [__] and the kid gets a shovel and he
starts shoveling looking for that
diamond ring. That's how I That's who I
am. I'm that guy looking for that little
diamond in that pile of [__] I'm an
optimist. You thought it'd all be okay.
Listen, I was in prison for well, I was
sentenced to 14 years, which by the way
was a pretty fair sentence overall, I
guess. And
uh every day in prison, I thought the
next day I might go home. And I did that
for 12 and a half years. Like that's how
that's how powerful the mind is. I was
born in '92. And in '92, that's quite a
significant year for you because this is
the year you were arrested, correct?
Yeah. What happened that day? Take me
into that day when you were arrested by
the police department. So, it's 92, the
day after Rodney King riots, May 4th,
May 5th. I had just made a deal with
Kenny Urel, my ex-artner, who was in a
cocaine business with him, his wife, and
his friends at the bowling alley. Kenny
Urel kept calling me up for for drugs
because the price had doubled. and he
knew that if anyone could get it, I
could. And I did. So, I got him a couple
packages of cocaine, let's say three or
four. In the meantime, his phones were
tapped because he was the target of an
investigation on Long Island. The
following day, I'm driving around and my
our radio's extremely quiet. No one's c
94's quiet anyway, the Williamsburg
area, but really quiet for the last two,
three days. And I'm getting a little
suspicious. I just pick drop a package
off with Kenny. I pull up to the station
house and I see a car there that looks
strange and I see two guys in the front
seat. I walk into the station house, my
partner, and I the desk officer, he
points, he says, "The captain wants to
see you." In walks these two guys that
were in the car that were out in front
of the precinct with their badges out,
"Lieutenant so and so, internal affairs.
We're taking you for a drug
test." And sure enough, uh, went
downstairs, got changed. I couldn't even
get changed. I couldn't get my clothes
off. They were so close to me. I
couldn't bend my knee. It was like right
up my ass. I'm like, "Excuse me, guys."
I said, "Am I under arrest?" They go,
"No, no, no. Are you sure? Because
you're awfully close here." Anyway, they
put me in the car. I get in the back of
the car. I said, "I got to smoke." I got
cocaine in my pocket now because it's in
my clothes. I got I couldn't take it out
and leave it in my locker with them
standing there. I go, "You guys, can you
open a window?" I'm smoking a cigarette
like I'm chain smoking. Yeah, it's okay.
We'll be all right. Are you sure you
guys going to choke out? No, no, don't
worry about it. I'm trying to get the
cocaine. Throw it out the window.
Anyway, they pull up to one leftrack
city and there's probably 60 cops,
sergeants, lieutenants, captains,
inspectors, all of them lined up with
their brass on all in uniform. Like,
what the [__] is this for a drug test?
Little strange. I get out of the car. I
go, I can just I can't dump it here.
They're here. They're they're I can't
even dump the coke. So, I get upstairs
to uh 16th floor and there's the
lieutenant who's been waiting for me for
years. He goes, "Dow, how are I go,
"Good, sir. How are you?" He goes,
"Good." He hands me the cup to go take a
piss. I hit just on a bump and and a
[__] and a vodka. So, I knew I was
hit. I turn around and walks my mother's
cousin from Suffach County Police
Department says, "Uh, Mr. Dow, you're
under arrest for conspiracy to
distribute narcotics." So, did you think
you were going to jail for the rest of
your life at that point? I didn't think
I didn't even think a week. I didn't
think a day. I think I'm going to make
bail. I'm going to beat the charge.
That's how I'm thinking. How did it feel
when you got arrested?
It was the biggest moment of relief. You
know, you asked about u life changing,
you know,
um lowest points. This was the best
feeling in the world. Almost like almost
like I was like, "Finally, it's over.
It's finally over. I can go on with my
life somehow." I didn't know it would
take almost 15 years. Well, even more
when you think about probation and a lot
of other [__] You were
relieved. When I was going to work every
day, I was going to work with anxiety
and
fear. I no longer had to have that fear.
It was gone. Of course, I didn't know
what I would be facing. I figured this
will work out. Like, that's how I
thought. You know, when you say you're
going to work with anxiety and fear
earlier on, you said you weren't scared
of being arrested. I wasn't scared of
being arrested. I was afraid of ruining
my life, okay? And living a double life,
you know, I'm lying to my wife. I'm
lying to my family. I'm lying to the
department. I'm lying to myself. I'm
lying to my young child, two children at
this point. You know, everything's a
lie. So, this anxiety and fear in that,
the fear of arrest really never entered
my mind. It's funny when you describe
being arrested and you you reference it
almost like it was your moment of
freedom.
I still do today. Yeah, it was the best
thing that ever happened to
me. If I could capsulize, put that in a
bottle, the peace I had at that moment,
I could probably live in that peace my
entire life and wish for that peace. The
peace that comes over you when that
pressure comes off your life because I
no longer have to live a lie. Obviously,
most people can't relate um because
they've never been in such a situation
where they've been like arrested. Um,
but I think to some degree people can
relate with the feeling of living a life
that's like inauthentic to them and then
something happening which forces them to
course correct. Yeah. I mean some people
kill themselves. Other people overcome
it and become the better version of
themselves. Either they
make lemonade out of the lemons or they
go on to become ruinous. So, and I told
you I'm looking for that diamond in that
pile of [__] So to me it was freedom.
How old's your child now? Your son? I
have two. My oldest son is uh he'll be
turning 40 and uh my younger son is
33 or four. So what advice based on your
experience in that moment would you give
to your kids about living an authentic
life and lying?
So it's and you'll know this from life
itself. It's easier to tell the truth in
the end than it is to lie because you
have to remember the lies every day and
live with the pressure of being
uncovered. So accept the hard knocks
that come along with living honestly and
um you'll you'll turn out to be a better
better person. So so part of my lesson
is if you don't have any bumps in the
road of
life, you really don't know that much
about life, right? You don't have you
have to learn how to overcome adversity.
So go ahead, live a good life. Do the
best you can. And if there comes a point
where you want to, let's say, experiment
with something or or take risks, just
accept the
consequences. If you're going to stick
up a bank, there's going to be
consequences maybe. And if there isn't
any consequences, it's going to haunt
you. There will eventually be a
consequence. There's always a
consequence. Everything has a cost. I
think about that just in day-to-day
interactions that it's like it's easier
to have the difficult conversation now
versus avoiding it and then it becomes
an even more difficult. Yeah, you're
logical. People that live in fear of
consequences, they don't think of that.
They think of the immediate
consequences. Immediate gratification.
Guy wants to get high because he wants
to feel this now. But he doesn't realize
that later on that cost the consequence
to that job, career, freedom, future,
you know, relationships, all the damage
that one incident can cause. But if you
own up to something immediately and
accept the responsibility for people
have a choice then you know who I am.
You can either interact with me or not.
But I don't have to have a false front
on when I speak with you or interact
with you. That must be quite a challenge
still for you to today because you know
you now go on podcast you interview talk
about what happened in your life and you
there's a lot of things that you did
that are hard to say but you're also
battling with this new reality of being
honest right about everything. Yes. So,
it's not hard for me to say anymore
because if you choose to have a
conversation with me about those things,
you're going to hear things that you may
or may not like, but you chose to be in
this conversation. You, your audience,
people that, listen, there's a lot of
people that hate me out there. But I
know this for a fact. I have people
today reaching out to me that have
attempted suicide 10, 15 times. Cops
that have had the gun in their mouth and
then their son walked in the room and
then I spoke to them the next day. I
mean, if I can go down a list of them.
So, you never know
what being honest and fully disclosing
the the tragedy of life or the
experiences of life can do for the next
person. And so, that's really where I'm
so happy that I've been able to do that.
I have a purpose and it it keeps me
connected. You know, look, once you're a
cop, you're sort of always a cop in a
way. I mean, there's going to be cops.
He's never a cop. He's a bad guy. Well,
you know what? [__] you. You eventually
get released on bail after that first
arrest, which I think comes to a lot of
people's surprise because I think some
people told thought that you were going
to be in prison for the rest of your
life, but your family put up some assets
to get you out on bail. That was a
$350,000 bail, right? It doesn't
straighten you up. No. When I get out on
bail, I'm clearheaded, but I don't know
what to do because I've never been in
this situation. I don't have a job. I
have two, three mortgages to pay. I have
a condo on the ocean in Myrtle Beach. I
have three homes. The tenants stop
paying the rent because they saw I was
arrested. Now I'm back in the chase
again to try to get my life back
together. And then it turns into a whole
new scenario comes my way. I'm out on
bail. I end up making a plan to go to
Nicaragua if they can become a shrimp
fisherman. Wait, let's pause there a
second. So you're out on bail and you
plan to escape the US, which means that
you'd be escaping your charges, correct?
But I can't go if I don't pay my family
back. I can't leave them homeless.
Okay. So, when you go out on bail, your
family are basically guaranteeing the
money. The money, right? So, if you
don't return from bail, they got to sell
their homes to pay my bail. They've got
to get $350,000. Yes. So, what you want
to do is you want to get $350,000, give
it to your family, correct? So that you
can escape the US. Correct. Okay. Yes.
And how would you plan to get that
$350,000?
There's a scenario comes my way. There's
a woman that owes this drug organization
half a million in cash and 10 kilos. All
we have to do is go get the money from
her and the drugs and I could pay my
family back and we can I can leave the
country and Kenny's going to join me. My
partner's back in. But that wasn't the
plan. The plan was never to kidnap her.
The plan was to go in with some
flowers, push her out of the way, take
the money and the drugs. But Kenny is
working for the federal government right
now wearing a wire. He called me up for
the drugs that brought me into his
conspiracy and they made me the kingpin
of his conspiracy. How long had you
known Kenny? I had known Kenny since
1985. So now it's 1992.
So you'd known him a long time? Yeah,
seven years. You'd been friends a long
time? Yes. And Kenny
intentionally wears a wire. Correct. And
pulls you into a conspiracy. Correct.
Working with the police. With the
federal government. Yes. Where they're
trying to get you to potentially kidnap
this woman, steal her stuff. Correct.
And leave the country. So what does that
do? That makes me It takes me from a
low-life drug dealer to a low life
kidnapping murderer guy. So then I'll
never go home. You see? You see how they
they're good. They're good. They take
you from being a drug dealer who's going
to get 15, 20 years to a murderer,
kidnapper. You took the bait, though.
Took the
bait. Swallow it like a pig. So, you've
left jail. You're out on bail. Kenny
starts putting in your head this idea of
potentially kidnapping or stealing from
this woman. You don't know he's working
for the police. And on the day of this
attempted kidnap/ robbery, correct?
You're arrested. Correct. Again. Again.
again. And how And how does it feel the
second time you're arrested? Relief
again? No. Now I'm angry. Now I'm pissed
off. I'm pissed off because I'm You got
to realize I'm a rat in a corner trying
to get out. You throw some cheese in
front of me. I go and eat the cheese and
then you poison the cheese, which is
Kenny bringing the [__] poison pill
to me of this kidnapping theory that
unfolds. Why did you take the bait
there? Why didn't you just Because you
talked to me. You said you had relief
when you were arrested that first. I
Let's dichotomy of this whole thing. It
was the greatest relief of my life. But
I jumped back in like a fool. It was,
you know, the word fear always comes out
first for me. Fear of not being able to
provide from now I got a wife and two
kids because I I was told I'm getting 25
to life by the state of New
York. That'll make anybody consider
running. I don't give a [__] who you
are. Now you're a police officer in your
30s. 25 to life, you know. All right.
So, you know, you're getting 25. So,
maybe 30. So, now I'm 30 something years
old. If I get out at 60, maybe if I live
through it, I'm looking to go. Bottom
line. Now, whatever opportunity comes
along, I'm looking to hit on it.
Whatever I can do. So, I'm like that
fish that they dangle that bait.
Eventually, that fish is going to bite
that hook. What happens to the bail? Did
do your family get to keep their money?
Yes. because I got arrested. Because I
got arrested. Eventually, you're
convicted of rakateeering, organized,
which is basically an organized crime
scheme and conspiracy to distribute
narcotics. Right. You served 12 years
and 5 months in prison. Yeah. That day
you went to prison. If I had asked you,
how long do you think you're going to be
here? What would you have said? So, when
I was sitting there waiting to get
sentenced, I'm think I'm going to get
seven, eight years. And uh sure enough,
she was firm and gave me what she
thought I deserved. Uh Mr. Dow, that's
168 months. So I'm going, "What the
[__] 168 months?" And she knew it. She
goes, "That's 14 years." How did you
feel when you heard that? I was
devastated. I was
devastated. You don't know how you're
going to react. I was pissed and
devastated
and how I I got to survive this. Like
now you go right into survival mode. I
got to survive this. And how am I going
to do that? People often think if you're
like a cop and you get sent to to prison
that you're going to have a really hard
time. You are. Did you have a hard time?
Yeah. But I was fortunate enough that
see I went to prison as a as basically a
racketeer. Right. So and and and I
worked with Dominican drug gangs. 30% of
the population is Dominican Puerto Rican
drug dealers in that realm. Then you
have your street peddlers which are
wouldn't be the same level. And then you
have your white collar guys and your
bank robbers. So I was I was a cop sent
to I was sent to prison as a police
officer for violating human rights for
beating and abusing individuals. I was
sent to prison for doing what everybody
else in there was doing. So the landing
was a little bit different for me. Now
don't say it was not easy. I didn't have
people opening a welcoming mat for me.
But there were some people that were
kind and that helped make made my bid go
well. No matter where I am in the world,
it seems like everyone is drinking
matcha. And there's a good chance that
that matcher you're drinking is made by
a company that I've invested more than
seven figures in who are a sponsor of
this podcast called Perfect Ted because
they're the brand used globally by cafes
like Blank Street Coffee and Joe in the
Juice and many, many more. Not only can
you get Perfect Ted Matcha in cafes, but
you can now also make it at home much
cheaper in seconds using our flavored
matcha powders that I have here in front
of me. Perfect Ted Matcha is ceremonial
grade and sourced from Japan. It is
smooth. It is naturally sweet, not like
those bitter grassy matches that I tried
before. Perfect Ted. And if you are one
of those people that have told yourself
you don't like matcha, it's probably
because you haven't tried our Perfect
Ted Matcher. And you can find Perfect
Ted Matcher in the UK in Tesco,
Sainsbury's, Holland and Barrett and in
Waitro or Albertine if you're in the
Netherlands and on Amazon in the USA or
get the full range online at
perfectted.com where you can get 40% off
your first order with code
Steven40. What about your family at this
point? Your mom and dad.
Okay, let's watch your head. Yes.
Okay. I'm Carol
Dow and uh I'm Michael Dow's
mother. Well, I remember being in court.
I only went to court once and that was
the day of
sentencing. And when they said the
amount of days he would be away, I
didn't really it didn't like hit my
mind, right? Because it was in days. It
wasn't in years, you know. when somebody
says that could be 15
years and we tried to deal with it the
best we could. Everything was going
smooth in our lives and then all of a
sudden this hit when I saw him. I guess
my first reaction was I love him but I
want to just reach in through the bars
that between us and say what did you do
this for? You know I can I can only
imagine Yeah. the the emotions that must
go through your head when you when you
find out something like that. Yeah, it's
it's terrible. Believe me, it's
terrible. Especially when you think
you're dealing with something else.
You're dealing with a kid who was honest
and reliable and smart and
good. Absolutely
shocked. I was angry, very angry at him.
How could you do this? You know, that
type of thing. She took eight months to
come see me. Eight months? Yeah. And
then she finally came and she she didn't
want to let me
go. You know, that was
tough. She had she went to church every
day 12 years.
She's
able. That's
tough. Yeah.
Okay.
Why why do you think that that moved him
so much? Uh I don't think he ever really
sits back and thinks about the other
people, you know, the other people in
his life, his father, his mother, his
family. It was all about him. It wasn't
about anybody else around him. How does
that make you feel when you see see him?
It made me feel
glad that he felt
sorry because he never really says this
in front of us,
but it made me feel glad that he
remembered that I went to church and
prayed for
him. He had good
parents, believe me. And I don't know
why this happened to him. He was a
skinny little kid on the corner with a
police uniform on and the authority, I
guess, went to his head. I'm not sure.
You know, she's always the uh Bob was
always
the the weather vein of what's right and
wrong, right?
I [__] with my mother my whole [__]
life cuz she always kept me on track,
you know. I
tried to. Yeah, she's tough. She's still
tough to [__] get me. You
cocksuck a [__] sucker. You [__]
prick. You
it's it's it's it's it's so interesting
to see to see that that emotion because
it it really tells me a lot about the
relationship you have with this woman. I
don't even know this woman, but I can
see the relationship.
We fight every [__] page.
My father leaves the room, but we get
like you guys are always fighting.
That's that's what your mother does cuz
she's the one who keeps you to the mat,
you know. She puts you on the mat. My
father, ah, it's okay. We'll get over
it. But my mother, she holds you to
account. Mother holds you to account.
But she loves you still.
She went to church for every day. Every
day.
I never knew that. I never knew
that. I only found that
out a year ago. I'm home 20 years. She
only told me that about a year
ago. What?
Why did Why does that move you so much
to find out she went to church every day
when you were in jail? Because we My
mother's not very loveydovey.
I am. She's not. And uh cuz my father
was, you know,
but you know, when you're raised by my
mother was raised by nuns, you know,
very cold and
calculating. You never knew she had a
heart. I mean, to go to church every
[__] day. They must really love you.
I guess it's speak for itself.
[Laughter]
You know, I had to have some discipline
raising that many children. You have to
have discipline. And of course, you kiss
them good night. You kiss them
goodbye. You love them, but my showing
my love was like making them breakfast.
I made them breakfast, you know. So that
was kind of a a way to show your love,
you know. I was here for them all the
time, but I was
not I was not mushy, you
know. And he's right. It was hard for
him to understand what I was going
through because I never showed my
emotions to them. The only emotions they
get they would get is get up in the room
and clean it up. get upstairs you and
hang those clothes up, you know. So,
there was always
that direction or order. So, I was
pretty tough, but that's the way I
am, I think, because of the way I was
raised. I didn't have a happy
childhood, but that's, you know, that
could be a reason why I was tough, but I
was tough. Maybe I was too tough.
What is that range of emotions you feel
about them now in the wake of all of
this? Um that
they
persevered. They persevered when I
didn't think much of
their traals that they were going
through.
I wish I could be them to my kids. When
I reflect on it, I'm like, I'm not them.
I can never be them. I just can't. But
yeah, it's really heavy for me to to
like that. I don't think anybody asked
me that question before because that's
really I mean, I'm 64 years old, bro. My
parents are 80s, you know. Uh days on
this earth are numbered for all of us.
And uh we don't know when the next one's
going to come or not. And uh with them I
call them almost every day just to see
you know hear their voice make sure
check everything good. Yeah. Okay.
Is there guilt associated with them in
particular?
[Music]
Um I don't even know what guilt is
anymore. Sometimes I just think it's I
have
compassion for what they've had to deal
with. So if you can translate that to
guilt, I guess so. But for me, it's more
like they're amaz. That's amazing what
they did and what they still do. Like
and maybe there's a sense of pride and
maybe some shame. Um there's a lot of
gratitude there. I am so grateful like
be that would be that would be the best
way to describe. Yeah. because I didn't
have that for my parents growing up cuz
I was the
one. I was the star. I was going to
bring my family someplace.
And in the end, it came back to the
people that I was always told not to be
like, don't be like dad, be somebody
else. You know, my mother, she came from
a broken home. Don't be like don't be
like your mother, be like somebody else.
But they these are the perfect people.
It all comes back to them really. If you
think about it, without them I' I'd be
in I'd be inside, you know, because you
left prison after jail after 13 odd
years
and you were 43 years old. You left?
Yeah. I'm going to say I was 44 actually
when I stepped out the door. Yeah. So
you said stepped out the door at 44
years old and you went back home. Yes.
Right. Yeah. To their house. To their
house. Yeah.
Yeah, that's, you know, quite the story.
I looked out the window. I saw my my
brother's two kids. I didn't know their
names. And I'm looking at these two
kids. Those are my nephews. I don't
know. I don't even know who they are. I
don't know their names. And then uh you
see the tears flowing. That's was 10
times first shower I took in freedom.
And uh I didn't know if it was the water
or my tears that were cascading over me.
That's no
exaggeration. I had to rebuild a life
from there. But without them and that
shower, without that moment of realizing
the loss. See, people don't realize the
loss. The loss is from the time you're
you graduated high school and finished
two and a half years of college. You
left that and then the next 20 [__]
something years of your life.
Zero is a
zero. You know, that's the that's the
you come out to zero. You are zero. Like
what we all measure ourselves by what
we've gained over life. I don't have a
car. I don't have a dollar. I don't have
any clothes. I have nothing. And now I'm
44 years old. But I had
two wonderful people. Your mom and your
dad? Yeah.
Not everybody could get that.
Did you want to go back to prison? Yes.
When you came out? When I first came
home? Yeah. Because people talk about
being institutionalized where prison
becomes home and comfort and
familiarity. Yeah. Was that the case for
you? Yes. I when I first came home, I I
I didn't know I didn't even know how to
order a hot dog. Like, I didn't know
how. I didn't know how to metriculate
through society. That same moment, I
came out of the shower and I stood there
and I said, "What am I going to do with
my life? I got to get a job. What's it
like to get a job?" Forget about getting
a job when you come out of prison.
That's like almost impossible. Just so
you know, like there's no [__] It's
almost impossible to get a job and you
come home from prison. Now you're a
dirty cop. Who the [__] wants to hire a
dirty cop? You you disparage the the
public's trust. You you you robbed drug
dealers. You sold drugs. You did
cocaine. Oh, did you want to hire me?
You didn't know your kids when you came
out? I didn't know my kids. I
uh How could you? I was gone for 12 and
a half years. My son was six. He five
and a half. He went to
college. My other son was was 11 months
and he was going into second year of
high school by the time I went to see
him. Well, first year of high school. So
I didn't know them. So that was a tough
situation to walk into. And uh yeah, you
tried to get a job as a handyman
thereafter. Eventually you go on to be
approached to make a documentary about
your life called the 75 documentary
which explains your life in more detail
and everything that happened. And the
documentary was centering on the Mullen
Commission which was a commission set up
in New York by the mayor at the time to
assess the extent of corruption in the
NYPD. Correct. And before you were
arrested there were 16 complaints that
had been made against you in the years
to the Internal Affairs
Bureau. You didn't provide any names at
the Mullen Commission. You said at the
time if I speak before your commission a
lot of cops are going to commit suicide.
Yes, that's correct. And during those
hearings at that commission, you
admitted to hundreds of crimes, but
later you said it's probably more like
thousands. And you explain the context
of that. Correct. And in that
commission, you admitted that both
police and drug dealers were your
employees. And as a result of this
commission, 200 officers were arrested
for drug trafficking. Correct. So that
commission was a huge moment um back in
1992 where things really Yeah. to be the
commission actually took place in 93.
But yes, in association to my arrest.
Yes. And that was 10 years ago roughly.
Yes. So that was 201
15 16 15. If I went back and I spoke to
Mike at let's say 18 years old. Yeah.
What was like the most important thing
that he needed to hear that he didn't
hear? What was what would you if you
could teleport back now and whisper in
his ear? Yeah. What would you say to
him?
Yeah. Well, you know, maybe I I
would I'm proud of you and I love you.
You
know, I'm proud of you and I love
you. That's simple. Two words. Why did
he need to hear that? What would it what
would that have changed? Well, because
we never know that we're doing enough.
And
um to be full of pride can be damaging,
but for others to be proud of you, like
you wonder what did I do that would give
you that that gives you a sense of pride
on my behalf, let's say, like why would
you be proud of me? Well, because I like
the way you handle people. you go out of
your way, you know, which is both
showing love and it's a reason for you
friends to be proud. I'm proud of Mike.
Why? Because he sacrifices of himself
for others. Like like that's sort of in
my nature, I guess, to begin with. Did
you feel like anyone was proud of you at
that age?
You know, you're getting back to my
mother. Okay. You're getting me back to
my mother stuff. And I've always been
seeking my mother's approval for some
reason. My dad was always pretty proud
of me, you know. And do you think that
if someone had said that to you at 18
years old that they're proud of you,
that they loved you, do you think it's
likely that you wouldn't have made the
decisions you then went on to make? I
think uh so so one time hearing that
would do nothing for anybody. But if
that's what you felt, but to be felt
feel that and to be constantly
reassured, I think that that could make
some significant changes in any person
because I as I'm thinking it through,
I've always was seeking my mother's
approval. I mean, every problem I ever
[__] had with a woman, I would always
like profess my mother's I don't have my
mother's approval. Somehow it would come
out. I'm disappointing my mother.
And that never has had left me. I think
now I'm okay. You know, my mom and I are
pretty pretty cool, you know. When she
told me she was praying for me every
day, I'm like, I didn't even think you
liked me,
you know. So, yeah. So, does this
corruption still go on in the police
department? Yeah. Oh, it's massive. So,
it's still happening now. It's massive.
It's just everything changes, but it's
still corruption. And so, when I was a
corrupt police officer, the corruption
was at the lower level because it was a
street level corruption. Today it's all
up at the top and it's plenty of it.
It's all about big budgets and money
power. Do you think they'll always
Listen, they had the girl bend over and
get taken up the ass. Excuse me. The
police chief
did what? Grabbed the lube from his
location, bent the girl over the couch,
and [__] her in the ass
recently.
Yes. And he was paying her for it.
on overtime. Who was this? This was a
sex worker or This is a [__]
lieutenant. Oh, so that the chief was
having sex with the lieutenant. Yeah,
cuz she needed money to pay her bills.
Oh,
okay. Okay.
He gave her $200,000 in overtime pay.
This is what goes on. That's the
corruption that goes on today.
Do you think there's still drug
corruption going on with drugs and drug
dealers and stuff like that? Not to the
extent that it was. No, but there's
always some. It's always here's how it's
today. Corruption is today hit and miss
scores opportunity. There's no
systematic corruption today. There may
be a
few. There may be a few, but very few.
When you say scores, you mean cops
showing up at somewhere, finding
something and finding something and
taking it. Like that would be the
corruption you would run in today more
than anything else in that in in that
kind
of level of corruption. But systematic
corruption of the bureaucracy itself is
massive. What was the most you you um
how much money you made in a day? You
said it was 40,000. 40,000. Yeah. And
and was that the Yeah. It's the funny
thing is I could have made 150,000 if
Diaz said I should have took the money
from that the robbery where they left
the money behind. He said you should
have took that money. At least I know
someone would have got it. He said the
cops got it.
Wow. Yeah. So So yeah. So, I I mean,
listen, there's a thousand stories in
that city.
Uh, every day was a it's like being in a
movie, but you're just you're actually
part of it every every [__] day, you
know? It's just insane. I listen, I
loved being a police officer. I didn't
think that I would. Um, it's the
greatest job in the world if you have
the support that you need. You can have
a wonderful day as a police officer.
going to have a horrible day, but in the
end, all you really want is love.
Don't we all? Mike, we have a closing
tradition on this podcast where the last
guest leaves a question for the next
guest, not knowing who they're leaving
it for. And the question that's been
left for you is, what is the gift that
the universe, life, or God has put you
here to share?
Well, uh, if you don't mind, I'm going
to say it again, and I said it on the
saw fight on the
belly. Just just everybody needs more
love. Just love. Just love each
other.
Listen. Just listen to your friends.
Listen to your neighbors. Just listen.
Patient
love. Why?
you'll find that we have more in common
than we don't.
Mike, thank you. It's been an absolute
pleasure speaking to you and um I mean,
what an incredible life you have lived.
Incredible isn't a very intentional word
there because you're right, it does
sound like it's a movie effectively. It
sounds like you some of the stories that
you've told and the things you've been
through are unthinkable, but in the
context of the human side of everything
you've
shared, it also makes sense. You know,
we go through experiences in our lives
and we can kind of take one or two
routes and that the experience you went
through, the love you did or didn't
have, the words that went said or unsaid
can take any of us in any direction. And
even me sat here today, there were
moments in my early life where I
remember a friend turning around to me
and saying to me one day, he said,
"You're either going to be a millionaire
or a criminal." He and he was one of my
best friends. It was my my my friend
Joe. Remember exactly where I stood when
he said it because I knew it was the
truth. Yes. Like I knew it was the
truth. I knew that effectively I was so
desperate to be successful. Yeah. That
that desperation would take me to great
lengths. And those great lengths,
especially when you're a young man and
you don't understand consequence in the
same way, those great lengths can trip
you over any kind of moral barrier.
Fortunately, I was really scared. I was
like scared of That's a lesson. Yes.
Yeah. I was and I was there was early
parts of my career where I was offered
opportunities to go in a certain
direction. Um especially when I dropped
out of university and they explained to
me, you know, the situation. Um and I
was too scared to take them up on the
offer. And actually the path of least
resistance for me was going into
business and building businesses and
doing those kinds of things. But it all
stemmed from an underlying probably
insecurity but also fear. Yeah. And
desperate and just like desperately
wanting to live a better life. And kind
of like what you said about your
parents, desperately wanting to be more,
you know, if you think about business or
entrepreneurship as well, it is
like self-punishment. So it's like a
huge risk, huge punishment, um great
uncertainty. So to do such a thing to
like to start a company to take that big
of a risk there's going to have to be a
pretty strong macro tailwind driving
force that's making you do that and a
lot of the time having sat here with
CEOs and founders and people that
achieve great success it's much of what
you've described it's maybe a parent
that didn't love me enough it's maybe
living in your father's footsteps it's
maybe being bullied in school it's maybe
being told you aren't good enough in
some way and that's the escape velocity
that propels us into a better or worse
life. Yeah. Thank you so much, Mike. I
really, really appreciate it. What a
journey. We launched these conversation
cards and they sold out. And we launched
them again and they sold out again. We
launched them again and they sold out
again because people love playing these
with colleagues at work, with friends at
home, and also with family. And we've
also got a big audience that use them as
journal prompts. Every single time a
guest comes on the diary of a CEO, they
leave a question for the next guest in
the diary. And I've sat here with some
of the most incredible people in the
world, and they've left all of these
questions in the diary. And I've ranked
them from one to three in terms of the
depth. One being a starter question. And
level three, if you look on the back
here, this is a level three, becomes a
much deeper question, that builds even
more connection. If you turn the cards
over and you scan that QR code, you can
see who answered the card and watch the
video of them answering it in real time.
So, if you would like to get your hands
on some of these conversation cards, go
to the diary.com or look at the link in
the description below.
[Music]
a
deep. Hey
[Music]